Before we can start building out some
of those pages let's get warmed up and
build out some of these components
first that we can kind of get ready for
all the things that we're going to do.
So like I said in this course we're
not going to be writing CSS from
scratch we'll be using Tailwind.
Luckily for you,
I got all the Tailwind classes here, so
you don't have to go look them up and
figure them out, they're right here.
They're all in the right
order that they need to be.
So we're just gonna use these.
So the first one that we are gonna make is
this glass pane, is what I'm calling it.
So if we go back and look at the app
one more time, is this the app?
This is the app.
If we go back here and look at the app,
it's like this frosted diffused thing.
That's the glass pane.
So we're gonna go make that a component so
we can reuse it everywhere.
Obviously, it's essential to the app.
It's everywhere, if I go to slash home,
it's here so we're gonna make that and
kind of get our feet wet with
making a regular React component.
And then we can talk about whether or
not if that component should be clients or
server.
I don't know.
It's like it might be hard to answer.
It might not be as easy as you think,
so let's do that.
Where are we going to make that?
>> The components?
>> Yeah, we're making the components.
What do you think would happen if
I tried to make it here in an app?
>> It won't work because it needs a page?
>> Yeah,
you would think it would work that way.
[LAUGH] It actually would work,
you could put you could put
anything in an App Directory.
It's just if you want a page
that has to be called page but
you can put CSS in here,
you could put other components in here.
In fact I think next.js is encouraging
people to do that, they're encouraging
people to like, if you have stuff, just
throw it in here and group it together.
So for instance, for the case of like,
if I had components that I needed for
this layout, I could make them and
just put them in this off
folder next to the layout.
I could put the CSS for
this layout in this off folder.
And it's fine, it'll totally work.
As long as you don't use those
keyword file names like layout, error,
loading, page, template, it'll still work.
So, to me it looks messy.
I don't like it, like just stuff
just floating out there and
not unfold because then you start adding
folders of a mess up the route path.
So I think it can get really messy people
like, well, let's organize all the CSS and
in the off in a folder in here and
then now you made a route.
And you thought you were
just organizing CSS files.
So I typically just get out of the app
directory for not making pages,
go do that somewhere else.
So, we'll do that and the components.
So let's do that.
New File, GlassPane.tsx like that.
It's gonna be some interesting
CSS stuff that I found out that
thing is really cool.
We'll see some of them here.
But for the most part,
it's gonna be a traditional components so
it's nothing crazy.
So the first thing we need to
do is just make a component.
So I call this glass pane.
Set it to a handy dandy functional
component, nothing crazy.
Return a div.
Pretty simple.
And then what we want to do is this
pane is a wrapper around stuff.
It's almost a layout in itself.
So it needs to be able
to render its children.
So we'll get access to those children like
that, so we'll put them in here, there we
go, nothing crazy, and then the last thing
we need to do is just add some styles.
So, we could do className, and
this is where we're gonna add
in all of our Tailwind stuff.
So if you look at the notes, I have all
the Tailwind styles there, but I also
want to be able to extend this glass pane
so you can pass in your own class names.
So I'm going to say this thing can take
in a class name as well like that.
So this is where you can
write all your classes and
then I don't know how
people would do it now.
Do you guys just interpolate?
Do you do back ticks?
I hate writing class names.
So I use this package called CLSX.
Like this, you should have it installed
already if you did the package json
earlier if you don't
feel free to install it.
And I mean it doesn't really do anything
crazy other than like string manipulation.
So it just helps you write compose
classes better in my opinion.
So I'm gonna say clsx like that.
And for the first argument,
I'm just gonna pass in all of my
Tailwind classes which
are gonna be rounded and
then we have rounded2xl and
then we're gonna do border solid.
I have what's this border to?
And then we have border-gray 200.
Something like that.
And then after this,
I'm gonna say className.
And this thing's freaking out because it
really wants me to export something so
let me go ahead and do that.
Wait, wait.
I have an extra.
There we go.
One too many.
Wait, where is this thing?
Do I have one extra one here?
Let me clean that up.
There we go.
Okay, there we go and then we export this.
All right, and
now we have a GlassPlane.
The last thing we need to do is, there's
gonna be a global style that we need
because Tailwind doesn't have like a blur.
It doesn't have this effect.
I didn't see it anywhere.
I don't really use Tailwind that much,
so I don't know if it does.
So I just made it myself.
And we're just gonna add
that to the global CSS and
then we can just add the glass here.
So I'm just gonna call it glass,
like that.
And then you can go into styles,
make a new file called global, like that.
And you can say glass.
And then we're going to use filter and
then we can say blur.
And I don't remember the exact number but
we can tweak it maybe blur like 16 pixels.
And then we can say saturate,
saturate just makes it more vibrant
when it's underneath the glass.
So I don't know you wanna
go crazy you can do 200%.
Let's go crazy.
I don't know.
See what happens.
So that's glass and because it's global,
we can just add it there, right?
So that's fine.
Cool.
Regular React component.
Nothing special about it.